{% include navbar.html %}

# 5.3 Github Pages Action

### 1. "HP Computers are Racist" Video - Thoughts
- Face tracking software only works on certain skin colors
- Clearly this was not intended, but it was a consequence of a lack of diversity in creation and testing
  - Needs more source data from a more diverse and wider variety of faces to fix this

# 5.4 Github Pages Action

### 1. CompSci has 150 principles students. Describe a crowdsource idea and how you might initiate it in our environment?
A crowdsource idea for computer science would be to have students submit some of their github commit data to a central database or information storage, and then use that data to analyze students' work and commit patterns. This could be useful data for teachers to learn when to best have due dates for assignments (to try and find the times that are least busy) or for other similar changes.

### 2. What about Del Norte crowdsourcing? Could your final project be better with crowdsourcing?
Del Norte crowdsourcing could include a survey or also data from the Del Norte high school that could analyze student study patterns, and then use this to find when students are at their busiest. For our website, this kind of data could prove useful to finding what type of career/education areas/pathways students prefer, and be able to cater to that preference with our website and encourage more students to enter a CTE pathway by acknowledging what students prefer most.

# 5.3 to 5.4 Notes

- Bias exists everywhere, need to strive to eliminate it in programs\
- Intentional and unintentional
- Casual vs sweaty, demographics, target audience
- Enhancing vs intentionally excluding 
  - is it harmful to certain groups?
- Important to receive feedback from variety of users to eliminate bias that they encounter
- Widespread access to information and data
  -  allows for solutions to problems
  -  results
- Distributed Computing - give power/computing power for faster calculations
- Citizen Science - scientific research conducted in a whole or part by distributed individuals, don’t have to be scientists
- Crowdsourcing is practice of obtaining input or info from a large number of people via the internet
  - More collaboration and connections
